Paneer Butter Masala Recipe

Wondering how to make Paneer Butter Masala? Follow this easy Paneer Butter Masala recipe with step by step video!

If you love trying paneer recipes, then this easy Paneer Butter Masala recipe is a must-try for you. Learning how to make restaurant style Paneer Butter Masala at home can be fun! This paneer butter masala recipe comes with a step by step detailed video that will guide you from start to finish. You can make this with easily available ingredients such as paneer cubes, tomato puree, ginger garlic paste, cashew paste etc., which is one reason why this is the best paneer butter masala recipe! You can make this easy paneer recipe in a jiffy for your family and friends and it will be ready to serve before an hour goes by. As compared to other easy paneer recipes, this one is sweeter and yet has a rich taste that can give a tough competition to any other variety. Paneer Butter Masala is nutrient-rich gravy and is loaded with protein. It’s a great dish that you can serve with naan or even tandoori roti on special occasions and festivals. This spicy paneer recipe is simply delicious. Also, do use a generous amount of ginger and garlic for a better flavour. It’s also called Paneer Makhni because of the oodles of butter added into it and you can easily find it in the top spot of any restaurant’s menu. So, if you have a party in your home, do try this delicious & spicy paneer recipe and enjoy with your loved ones!
Read less
Ingredients of Paneer Butter Masala

2 Servings
250 gm paneer
1/2 teaspoon garlic paste
1 1/2 tablespoon cashew nut paste
3 tablespoon fresh cream
2 tablespoon butter
1 teaspoon kasoori methi powder
1 teaspoon chaat masala powder
1 cup tomato puree
1/2 teaspoon ginger paste
1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder
1 tablespoon ghee
salt as required
1/2 teaspoon honey
How to make Paneer Butter Masala
Step 1 Prepare the tomato-cashew nut gravy
To prepare this easy paneer recipe, take a pan and melt ghee in it. Once the ghee is melted, add ginger garlic paste and saute these ingredients for half a minute. Then add tomato puree in it. Stir well and then add cashew nut paste along with red chilli powder and salt. Mix well and cook for 2 minutes.

Step 2 Cook paneer in this gravy for 2 minutes
Now, add honey, kasoori methi powder, butter in the gravy and mix well. Cook for 2-3 minutes and then add paneer pieces in it. Stir gently and coat the gravy well over the paneer pieces.

Step 3 Garnish with fresh cream and serve Paneer Butter Masala hot
Add fresh cream (keep 1 tbsp aside) in the gravy along with 1/2 tsp chaat masala. Cook for 2-3 minutes. Your Paneer Butter Masala is ready! Garnish with remaining fresh cream and chaat masala. Serve Paneer Butter Masala hot with paratha, rotis or rice!

Tips
Homemade paneer works best for this recipe. If you are using store-bought paneer, try to soak it in warm water for 10-15 minutes.
If you have more time, add 1/2 cup chopped onion and 1/2 cup chopped tomatoes in the first step and then blend the mixture.
Strain and blend the residue again in the blender while preparing the gravy for enhanced smoothness.
If you prefer a spicier gravy, add 2 tsp green chilli paste or extra red chilli powder.
