Dal recipe

Want to make restaurant style dal at home? Here is an easy dal recipe with step by step instructions!

If you are looking for a tasty and easy Dal recipe, here is the perfect one! Why order dal online when you can make restaurant style dal fry at home? This dal fry recipe can be effortlessly made at home using easily available ingredients from your pantry. The best part about this dal recipe is that it is made with a wholesome combination of toor, chana and masoor dal, making is a healthy option that you can relish with both rice and rotis. You can also tweak this dal fry recipe as per your taste! It is generously garnished with tempering of dry red chilies, cumin seeds and asafoetida. This deliciously cooked Dal is made with onions, garlic-ginger, tomatoes and is seasoned perfectly with salt, red chilli powder and turmeric powder. This Dal recipe is not only easy to digest, but at the same time it makes for a perfect lunch/dinner recipe, when served with cooked Rice or Roti. This easy Dal recipe will take complete control over your taste buds and you will relish it for a longer time. In fact, this delicacy is one of the most common dish of every Indian household. However, to make it taste more delightful you can tweak this traditional recipe as per your taste preference. Also, if you are on your weight loss journey, then, this can make for a delightful meal option which is high on protein and is certainly a healthy choice to go for! If you are fond of spices you can add some dry roasted red chilies to this blend. To make it rich and amazingly delicious add a dash of home made garam masala. Here’s a simple way of making this dish more aromatic by dry roasting your favourite spices and add them after grinding the spices. This fresh mix will accentuate the taste of this delicious Dal recipe.. It tastes best when served with rice, chapati and pulao. So, next time when you want to make something delicious and easy, then try this and relish with your family.

Read less
Ingredients of Dal

4 Servings
1 cup toor daal
1/2 cup masoor dal
1 tablespoon crushed ginger
2 finely chopped green chilli
1 teaspoon red chilli powder
8 cup water
salt as required
2 crushed lightly dry red chili
1/2 cup chana dal
2 medium sliced onion
1 1/2 tablespoon crushed garlic
2 finely chopped tomato
1/2 teaspoon powdered turmeric
8 teaspoon ghee
1 teaspoon cumin seeds
2 pinches asafoetida
For Garnishing
4 tablespoon chopped coriander leaves
How to make Dal
Step 1 Pressure cook the dals
Dal Recipe is a blend of delicious dal and spices. Here's how you can make it at home. Take a pressure cooker and fill it with 4 cups of water. Now, add toor dal, chana dal and masoor dal in water. Add salt in the cooker, close the lid and cook it on a medium flame for 5 whistles and then turn off the flame. Keep the cooker aside.

1
Step 2 Saute the vegetables
Now take a non-stick pan and heat 4 tsp. ghee on a medium flame. Then add 1 tbsp chopped garlic and ginger. When garlic becomes light brown, add sliced onions. Add chopped green chilli.

Step 3 Add spices & cook until the vegetables until tender
Saute until onions are translucent. Add chopped tomatoes and season it with turmeric and red chilli powder. Cook until tomatoes become tender.

Step 4 Add cooked dal, water & let it simmer
Now open the lid of the cooker and add cooked dal in the pan. Also, add 2 cups of water and stir to mix well. Sprinkle salt and cook on a medium flame for 5 minutes. Let it cook and thicken.

Step 5 Prepare the tempering
Stir occasionally to check the consistency of dal, then remove from flame and carefully transfer it to a large bowl and keep it aside. Meanwhile, take a small pan, heat the remaining ghee on medium flame and add cumin seeds and crush two dry red chillies. Then add asafoetida and heat it for a few seconds.

image (5)
Step 6 Pour the tempering over cooked dal & garnish before serving
Now pour the prepared tempering over cooked dal in the bowl. Garnish dal with chopped coriander leaves and remaining garlic. Serve while it’s hot.

Tips
You can use any combination of dals in this recipe.
Make sure that the dal has a medium to thick consistency.
You can also use curry leaves in this dal recipe.
Feel free to increase or decrease the amount of spices as per your taste.
