Fried Rice Recipe

Fried Rice is most simple and delicious dish, which is extremely easy-to-cook. This quick rice recipe can be cooked in various interesting ways in the shortest possible time. This is a perfect go-to dish for every rice lover. You just need a few easily available ingredients and you are good to go! Here’s how you make this lip-smacking recipe at home by following four simple steps. Made with vegetables and cooked rice, it is a wholesome meal, which can be served for lunch or dinner. You can add your own twist to this delectable rice recipe, if like it spicy you can start by frying some dried red chilies, once the veggies are fried and ooze out a smoky flavour you can add cooked rice and stir fry this amazing amalgamation of spices and soy sauce. The best thing about this recipe is that you can tweak ingredients as per your palate preference. To accentuate the taste of this easy rice recipe, you can add cottage cheese (paneer), soya chunks, fried eggs or if you are a meat lover you can add your favourite cooked meat to this dish. However,we will suggest you to try this recipe for your loved ones. If you are a health freak, you can make this amazing dish with cooked brown rice and lots of veggies, this will make this scrumptious dish healthy and delectable. It tastes best when served with crispy chilli paneer, chilli chicken or manchurian. You can garnish this simple rice recipe with freshly chopped coriander leaves.

Read less
Ingredients of Fried Rice

4 Servings
500 gm boiled basmati rice
1/2 cup chopped carrot
1/2 teaspoon garlic paste
1/2 teaspoon powdered black pepper
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 tablespoon green chilli sauce
4 pinches salt
1 bunch chopped spring onions
1/2 cup chopped capsicum ( green pepper)
1/2 teaspoon ginger paste
11/2 tablespoon light soya sauce
2 tablespoon tomato ketchup
1/2 cup sunflower oil
How to make Fried Rice
boiled-rice
Step 1 Boil the rice or steam cook them
Add 1/2 tsp salt and 1/2 tsp sunflower oil to rice and boil. Drain the water from boiled rice and allow it to cool by spreading it on a plate. You can also used cooked rice if you are in a jiffy.

chop
Step 2 Saute all the veggies
Heat a pan with 1/4 cup of oil on a moderate flame. Add ginger-garlic paste and fry till light brown. You can add some green chillies as per your palate preference.vAdd all the vegetables like onions, chopped spring onions, capsicums. Cook this mix of veggies and spices for some time by continuously stirring. Keep the sauteed vegetables aside.

fried
Step 3 Mix sauces in the veggies and cook with rice for 3-5 minutes
Take another pan and heat 1/4 cup of oil on a moderate flame. Add boiled rice and stir fry for 3 mins on sim flame. Now add all the sauteed vegetables in the pan and mix them well. Add soya sauce, vinegar, tomato sauce, green chilli sauce, black pepper powder, salt and mix well. Keep stirring on medium flame till all the sauces dry. Turn off the heat and transfer fried rice in a serving bowl. Garnish it with some freshly chopped coriander leaves. Serve this rice recipe with sauces of your choice.

Tips
Do not completely cook the rice in one go as they will be cooked properly in steps further.
Adding the sauces after adding vegetables can spoil their colour and texture. Refrain from doing so.
Toss the pan as much as possible while cooking instead of using a ladle. This will prevent the rice from breaking.
